So here we are implementing the 1D_CFAR using
the lagging cells on the given noise and target scenario.
First, we pick the number of samples on which we want to run the CFAR.
Then, we generate the noise using
the same number of samples and take the absolute value of it.
Now, what you want to do is,
you want to use the random amplitudes an the same noise
samples to create the mock targets.
So here, I'm putting a noise,
putting a random amplitude at noise being 100,
200, 350, and 700,
and the value of those amplitudes are 8, 15, 7, 13.
You can use any number you want.
If you want, you can plot the output of this.
So let's put a break point and see how does
the signal look like at this point. There you go.
So as you can see, we have the noise at the bottom,
and then we have these high amplitude signals which we gave at 100th pin,
200th pin, 350th pin, and 700th pin.
Now, it's time for some fun.
We want to apply the CFAR on the same signal. How do we start?
First, we pick the number of training cells and guard cells.
Try using any number.
Then, we use the offset.
Here, since you are working with the linear values,
you multiply the offset to the threshold.
Before you start the loop,
create a vector to hold the threshold values as well as the thresholding signal values.
So it's easier to plot at the end.
Now, we run the loop.
So we run the first training cells starting from the first pin,
and we keep stepping it through till the end of the vector.
But make sure that you give the room for last set of guard and training cells,
along with the cell in the test.
In the next step, combine all the noise across all the training cells,
then take that summation of the noise and divide by the number of training cells.
This gives you the average noise level in each training cell.
Multiply that value by the offset to get the threshold.
This is our CFAR threshold.
Now, measure the signal level at cell under test.
This cell will be located at training plus
guard cells away from where the first string cell is.
If the signal under the cell and the test is less than the threshold,
then assign the signal a value of zero.
Here, we plot the threshold noise signal and thresholded signal.
So if you run the complete code,
this is how we get the signal output.
So the red threshold here is the CFAR threshold.
As you can see, it aligns well with
all the targets and effectively suppresses all the noise.
This is how our target response looks like.